Self-care: Everyday hygiene or health related responsibilities performed on a Sunday

DIY: Short for "Do It Yourself" used to label household tasks that you....simply....do....

Meal-prep: This is literally just cooking.

#adulting: Term used to publicly congratulate oneself for meeting the basic expectations of living (paying a bill, putting on pants, perhaps going to work).

Self-love: A useful term for labeling your thoughts about yourself when you need to post them on the internet for affirmation.

#blessed: Similarly used to help yourself brag on the internet, but this time probably more about something you have: the nicest boyfriend, sweetest family, yummiest dinner etc.

#livingmybestlife: See above (You see, it’s not actually possible to enjoy your life unless other people know how much you’re enjoying your life. Get it?).

Dog mom: Refers to a woman who has a dog. No, she doesn't have kids, but she totalllyy gets it. Do you wanna see a picture?

Dog dad: Refers to a man who has a dog. By demonstrating basic care and perhaps affection for another being, this man has surpassed all expectations and is highly celebrated. Don't forget his "Best Dad Ever" t-shirt for Father's Day!

Positive or Negative Self-Talk: You may refer to this as "thinking"

Unplugging: Plugging in your phone and scrolling through Instagram for an hour. You deserve it.

Lady Boss/Girl Boss: When a woman is the boss somewhere. No really. You have to clarify and celebrate because Patriarchy.

Getting involved politically: Retweeting Elizabeth Warren with applause emojis. Ok, let's be real: retweeting Leslie Knope memes.

"Doing the work"/having messy conversations: Literally no one knows what these mean or look like but it sure gives a lot of nice white ladies on stages something to say when faced with challenging questions about constructive race relations or how to be an ally.

#treatyoself: Reckless spending on leisure or merchandise disguised as self-care (see #1) and guilt free because #adulting is hard (see #4) and because Tom Haverford.

Instagram: Where you go to find out what your friends' dogs are doing, see girls do yoga in jeans, or watch people slice open the yolk of a soft-boiled egg.

Twitter: For when you need to check in with just how fucked up the world is, but you don't have that much time

Facebook: lol, wut? How old ARE you?

Being Fully Present: Putting your phone away so that you can really, truly and fully absorb the present moment watching all of your friends on their phones
