Over the past couple of years, you may have noticed that Mother’s Day tributes, birthday shout outs, and anniversary celebrations on social media have started to sound a little something like this: “to the strongest and most resilient woman I know….” or “to my incredible, strong and patient mother” or “to my amazing, strong, and talented fiancé.” There has been a shift, of late, towards complimenting women for their character (strength, patience, ambition, resilience, intelligence) rather than their physicality (beautiful, pretty, sexy). People have been finding ways to decrease objectification of women, and increase celebration of their accomplishments, social contributions, and character. This is good!

The problem is, the replacement compliment for “beautiful” or "pretty" has become “strong” which, to my ears, is similarly problematic.

Let’s break that down.

When discussing toxic masculinity, rape culture, or other issues relating to gender inequality a point of tension generally arises when determining who the burden of change falls upon. Rape culture provides the clearest example of this point of tension.

On the one hand, obviously, people should not rape other people.

But on the other hand, until rape is less of a threat, doesn't this generation of potential victims deserve to feel empowered to protect themselves?

But then...back to the first hand... does teaching victims how to protect themselves (statistically mostly women) give aggressors (statistically mostly men) an "out" from having to do the work?  Are we declaring the behavior of women as more changeable than the behavior of men?

This confusion is summed up by Tracey Vitchers, board chair for Students Active For Ending Rape (SAFER) in an interview with ThinkProgress when asked to comment on nail polish that has the ability to detect roofies when submerged in a drink, “I think that anything that can help reduce sexual violence from happening is, in some ways, a really good thing, but I think we need to think critically about why we keep placing the responsibility for preventing sexual assault on young women.”

"Placing the responsibility for preventing sexual assault on young women” is the pre-assault version of "victim blaming." Victim blaming is generally used after an incident has occurred, and refers to the tendency to challenge those victimized to have lived a more cautious, guarded life rather than to evaluate the culture that promoted or allowed an incident to occur.

Classifying women as "strong" does something similar. It's kind of...victim glamorization. When we call women "strong" in a celebratory manner, aren't we, in a sense, glamorizing the circumstances that have made them strong? Like, aren't we kinda glamorizing... patriarchy? Women are strong as a reaction to cultural circumstance. If you affirm the strength, you affirm the culture that makes it necessary.

 The trouble with “pretty" was that it was defining women's value in relation to the world of men. So, my question is: doesn't "strong" do the same thing???
